---
layout: post
date: 2019-12-04
category: Conferences 
description: Arrow - Artificial Intelligence Experience Conference. 
---

# Arrow - Artificial Intelligence Experience
December 03 - Sponsored Conference by Microsoft, Intel, Nvidia

A one day event that features AI expert insights into key growth areas in AI.

'Stay ahead of the AI curve'


## Who is Arrow?

Arrow Electronics guides innovation forward for over 200,000 of the world's leading manufactures of technology used in
 homes, business and daily life.
 
By the time you get your morning coffee, you will have interacted with at least 5 Arrow involved products.

Arrow is involved with everything.

Key insights: 
* IOT ->  AIOT ( Artificial Intelligent of Things)
* 80% of companies will increase revenue with IoT


Wave of innovation:
* IOT is a massive market
* AI growth is accelerating and outpacing IOT.
* Digital Feedback loops are faster

### Data is the new oil 
* Whoever knows how to refine the data will make big money.
* Data is no good on its own
* Refined Oil = *VALUE*
* Act on insights driven from data





### Inference Engine
* A model that has already been trained
* ready to be published and exported to Edge devices
* Can use these edge devices with a ready built inference engine, that is hot pluggable.

### AI Lifecycle

* Create
* Connect
* Analyse
* Manage
* Scale
* *Secure*


## Microsoft

Also heavily invested in the AI space. Microsoft has invested > $5billion in IoT + AI. Aiming to transofrm industries.

Microsoft want to provide the platform to empower industries + develop new innovative solutions to the world's most 
troubling problems. Empower people to transform society. With simple to use *Drag and Drop* AI models, developers are more
ready than ever to innovate without the specific need of a data science.

pace of investment in AI and advanced analytics:
* 2018: $1.2T
* 2019: $1.9T
* 2020: ~$2.6T
* 2021: ~$3.5T
* 2022: ~$3.9T
* This is a REAL industry to get in now! There is lots of money here!


Microsoft has various AI tools and products available:
* Azure machine learning studio + workbench
* Cognitive language and real time voice translation.
* VSTools for AI
* Azure Infrastructure:
   * AI On data
   * AI compute
   * CPU, FPGA, GPU
* AI services
    * Prebuilt AI 
    * Cognitive bots

Challenges today: 
* High barriers to entry
* Massive amount of data we don't know
* High costs: Transporting data / cost of latency
* Limits to act intelligently
* High developer skill-set needed for hardware.
* No standardisation in AI - All custom code with manual effort to deploy systems.

### Recent AI innovation breakthroughs:

Human parity = Can do the same/ better than humans

* 2016 - Object detection human parity
* 2017 - Speech Recognition human parity
* 2018 - Machine Reading Comprehension human parity - Understanding of the words said.
* 2019 - Machine Translation human parity - Translation between different languages now real time.

### Cognitive Services
* It is a ready to use service, as well as being very customisable.
    * Vision, Speech, Language comprehension, sentiment detection (if you look happy/sad etc.), knowledge base, search + labs
    * Easy to use, plug in a containerised REST API.
    
### Edge
Anything that runs on the edge, should also run on the cloud.
Containerised isolated environments allow for services to run on anything.
Now we get intelligent clouds.

PRODUCT HIGHLIGHT:
* Security ai at the edge:
* Mac address theft identification - when a dodgy (Thief) MAC address holder enters a supermarket, there will be an
announcement on the tannoy "There is increased security today, in this store" as a preventative mechanism for any
 thief activity. 
 
 There is an Azure Sphere chip: about £6.90. offers 10 year security. 

AzureStream analytics:
* Performance, Developer productivity, intelligent cloud & the edge.
* Less code = more developer productivity -> data insights are perishable - insights must be made quickly if you want
to make the most impact (Trends -> Figuring out the trends before competitors.)

With Azure Solutions I have all the tools needed to continue one of my edge device products.
* Skateboarding terrain monitoring device.

    
## NVIDIA

Nvidia is also very invested in  AI. The company ir historically a gaming company. But is now invvested pretty much 50/50 in
gaming and AI.

Technology Highlights:
* Aiva Technologies - Airbus. it is a remote airbus emergency vehicle.

AI is just a tool - Not this big thing that will change the entire planet.
* Treat AI as the same as Cloud back in 2010. Everything thought cloud will completly change the world. Well it has had 
a very large impact, but still just a tool that we can use that provides benefits.

Oscar Winners for GCI , all use NVIDIA GPU's.
Rendering Graphics requires billions / trillions compute. 
AI use cases are very visual right now, and with that, most AI solutions require a GPU.

Autonomous machines (TESLA) the peak in edge devices currently.
These vehicles require INSTANT feedback + instant complex decisions. Who to hit.

AI: ITS ALL ABOUT SPEED. ITS ALL ABOUT TIME TO VALUE.

AI benefits in Phamacy - reducing time to market.

Ocado:
* predict demand, reduce waste

Smart City:
* Traffic management, improved safety, sensor intelligence

RoughCo
* Smart Deepsea rover, analyse + improve, maintaineance - DREAM JOB

Amazon's Reccomendation engine: $86 billion a year

Foot waste AI - WINNOW
* Intelliegent camera to tackle food waste, companies can now be transparent in their food waste.
* reduce costs in food, better public image, environmental first. Sense of achievement when saving food.


BenevolentAI - Healthcare
* accelerate discoveries with AI -> SUPER RND

Drone - AerialTonics
- Aerial inspection, fault detection, dangerous locations, trespassers. 

enroute - Search + Rescue Drones


Kubernetees on Nvidia GPU cloud:
* Load balancing, increase magnitude on learning
* Multi GPU = SUPER LEARNING


Simple solutions are possible: Sprinkler system to detect weeing dogs.

### Getting Started

_Using AI as a tool to transform the world for the better_

Nvidia Jetsonn develpper kits. E105 starter kit. Jetson nano. $100 computers with AI intelligence built in.
* Free starter coures to help set up product + produce soem value. THen some additinoal paid courses to take.

The field of AI has never been so easy to get into, now their are affordable pathways. - Still is intimidating, I feel like 
I would need a stronger breadth of tech skill first.

[Developer.nvidia](developer.nvidia) , [twodaystoademo](nvidia/twodaystoademo)

It is important to get started in the Field SOON. All devices *WILL BE SMART*


## Intel

### OPEN VINO
Leveraging powerful neural networks processing video for ai applications as fast as possible

Microsoft and intel have been working together lots to work on building a great AI experience.

OpenVino provides lots of compute power.
Optimising the data before data manipulation - removing useless data that will not affect AI performance. Only speed it up.

Training Phase -> Inference phase.

Open Vino Model Zoo
* Loads of pre trained models: face analysis, pretrained DL models, best performing solution across all intel based architectures.
* Increased speed of development: Reduced time by using a library of optimised solutions.
 
### DL Workflow
1. Import a pretrained model:
* Eliminate unneccesary layers
2. use the model - immediate representation
3. Inference engine - optimised CROSS platform

### Customer information
There is a *lot* you can do without specific customer PI information.
* Retail decisions: Complexion - See what clothing a customer suits when entering the store, automated reccomedation.


### Video indexer
Summarise keynote presentations very easily.
Only hear what you want to hear with a selection of tags that match voice records.

One way of doing speed learning. Cut out the waffle.

### Custom Vision

[Custom Vision](https://customvision.ai) 

Sentiment analysis: detect the mood the user is in.




## Thanks
Thank you for reading my blog.

Keep in mind this is a very rough draft, I just wanted to get what I captured from the AI Event on my blog.

