---
layout: post
date: 2020-02-14
category: Community
description: Learn about 100 days.
---
 
# 100 days of code

The impact 

What it does for you

How it looks for employers

How you can do it

Good projects to do

Beginner tips


The title is pretty self explanatory what 100 days of code is, it is where you dedicate 100 days of your time working on programming projects, or educating yourself with different programming languages.

Why 100 days? Well that is just the trend, you can do more or less if you desire, the main intention is to completely surround yourself with learning and develop strong habits from that. 

Being part of the #100daysofcode community really supports you, it is there to provide encouragement, at the start of your journey you can tell the community "I will start my #100daysofcode journey today!", And if you so wish you can update the community on your progression through your journey.

It is important to be reflective of each of your days. I.e Day 81: Today I learnt about React Sagas, and used them in an example project. You do not have to share this with the world, it is just important that you are able to make the most out of your time, and really see the progression you are making.

At the end of the 100 days of code, you may very much be so infatuated by it, that you want to continue. I say, definitely, keep up the fire! When it starts being a chore, or you have other priorities, then it's time to end the journey, for now. When I looked back on my programming maturity at the start from the end, I can definitely see that I had changed a lot.

What changed? 
At the beginning I was so scared to just start a project, or even continue on a project. I wasn't comfortable coding, I had to always look up documentation, I had so many blockers.
On my journey I wanted to learn to be a more independent programmer, I wanted the ability to just pick up an empty file and make it a program, and understand the libraries that I am using. 
I learnt just that, and more, coding each day completely changed my thought processes, I felt my mind had unlocked. My problem solving skills had improved so great, that I was able to apply it to other life situations.

With 100daysofcode, I recommend using GitHub to track your daily commits. By the end, you will see a thick GitHub commit streak that looks so great on your profile. Employers can see this and can see your true passion for coding, you are no longer an imposter saying they can code, you are someone that does code and can show for it. 
It is true, that you can fake your GitHub commit streaks (you can even create nice looking patterns) in most cases a fake commit streak is pretty obvious, and can easily be called out on, when an interview asks what did you do with your commits.


How to get started? 
Well, just code. But I understand that is a bit daunting. I strongly recommend Wes Bos' 30daysofcode JavaScript project. I am sure you will be able to find similar projects online for other languages. The benefits of this course is that, they are laid out well for daily programming sessions, you will learn lots by just watching, and then after each video you can have a go at implementing what you have learnt.

You will find that, if you take this seriously, you will end up with a portfolio of your efforts. Especially if you use GitHub to store your projects. It is time that it not wasted, even just 15 minutes each day, do something, be proactive, explore, create.


